Here is the lesson flow: (1)
introduction to antivirus software;

(2) how does antivirus software work and
(3) choosing the best antivirus software.

Introduction to Antivirus Software

A computer plugged into the internet is always
at high risk and it is always recommended

to install antivirus software onto the
system. A computer virus can degrade

the performance of a computer and delete stored
computer data. Viruses usually spread through

networks by means of download, email and shared
disk. If an infected file is attached to these

sources then the system is likely to become
infected upon opening the infected files.

Some of the symptoms indicating viral infection
are improper functioning of applications.

Slow operation and unusual error message, frequent
hanging, frequent restarting, problem sprinting,

double extension on any attachment, and distorted
menus and dialog boxes. An antivirus program

scans the hard drive and floppy disk to protect
the computer against viruses, worms, spywares,

trojans and more. It ensures that the system is
healthy and alerts the person to implement safety

measures against harmful attacks. Regularly update
the antivirus software by subscribing to the

updates from anti-virus vendors whenever offered.
The virus dictionary and the suspicious behavior

approaches are the most widely used approaches
by antivirus software to detect malware.

The Need for Antivirus Program

When a PC is connected to the internet, the
PC has to combat different malicious programs

such as viruses, worms,
trojans, spyware, and more.

Cyber criminals such as attackers, and hackers
use these malicious programs as tools to steal

important information such as personal data
stored in the computer. Due to the invasion of

malicious programs in the cyberspace, antivirus
programs have become necessary for computers.

How does antivirus software work?
Most of the commercial antivirus

software used two techniques: First, one
would be the virus dictionary approach

and the second one would be detecting
suspicious behavior from a computer program.

First one is the virus dictionary approach.
The antivirus software refers to the dictionary

of known viruses identified by the
author of the antivirus software.

The antivirus software can delete the file repair
the file by removing the virus or quarantine it to

make the file inaccessible to other programs. To
be successful, this approach requires the virus

dictionary to be updated with periodic online
downloads. The antivirus software usually examines

files when the OS creates opens and closes
the files as well as when they are emailed.

The software can be normally scheduled on
the hard disk to regularly examine the files.

The suspicious behavior approach include the
following: In this approach, the antivirus

software monitors the behavior of all programs
instead of identifying the known viruses. Whenever

the program its suspicious behavior is found the
software alerts the user and asks what to do.

This approach provides protection against new
viruses that do not exist in virus dictionaries.

There are other ways to detect viruses. First one
would be antivirus software will try to emulate

the beginning of each new executable code that
is being executed before transferring control to

the executable. If the program seems to be a virus
or using self-modifying code, then it immediately

examines the other executable programs. This
approach results in more false positives.

Sandbox is another kind of detection method
that emulates the OS and runs the executable

in situation. The sandbox is examined for a virus

after the termination of a program. It
is performed during an on-demand scans.

Choosing the Best Antivirus Software

When purchasing an anti-virus software,
look for certain features and choose the

one that can best serve your needs. The
most important things to consider are:

In antivirus scanning there should be antivirus
detection accuracy which ensures that the

anti-virus software scans and detects viruses
accurately and detects the majority of threats.

For the scanning speed, ensure that
the anti-virus software can perform

the task quickly and efficiently. For resource
utilization, ensures that the anti-virus software

utilizes minimal resources and does not affect
system performance when scanning the computer.

Next things to consider are the hacker
blocking which prevents other users from

gaining unauthorized access and stealing important
data such as passwords and other confidential

information. Next is the bidirectional firewall,
ensure that the antivirus software is equipped

with a software firewall to scan both incoming and
outgoing traffic. Next is the technical support,

look for good technical support so issues can be
solved easily. Parental controls - ensure that the

antivirus program has parental control features
so children can browse the internet safely.

Next is the easy installation the antivirus
software should be user friendly and easy to use.

The antivirus must also be on demand and

has a scheduled scanning. Allows you to schedule
a scan according to a user specified time

users can schedule the scan daily weekly or
monthly. The last three things to consider

in choosing the best antivirus software are
the automatic updates which keeps the user

abreast of the latest online threats without
the user having to visit the vendor's website.

Spyware detection and prevention which
checks for the anti-spyware components

keep spyware at bay and lastly, email
scanning email protection that can monitor

POP and SMTP ports and ensure that the emails
do not contain threat to your computer.

