This is the second topic of Cybersecurity

One

Security Control and Framework Types. Here's the outline

of the lesson, First, we're going to talk about the various

types of control, and Second, we'll be talking about Framework

Types. The first type of control is preventive controls.

It prevents any security breach from occuring.

It is aimed at preventing an incident from occuring.

Examples of these preventive controls are security guards,

biometrics and security cameras. Detective controls.

This attempt to detect any break in that has already happened.

It aims to detect incidents after they have occured.

Such tools to be used are security audit, visual surveillance

system and motion detection system.

Next is Corrective controls.

It attempts to reverse the impact of an incident or problem

after it has occured.

It aims to reverse the impact of an incident.

Such examples we use or actions to be do

are intrusion detection system, backups and system recovery.

Next is Deterrent controls, which attempts to prevent incidents

by discouraging threats.

It aims to discourage individuals from causing accident.

Such examples of tools that can be used in this control are

cable locks and hardware locks.

Compensating controls

These are alternative controls used when a primary control

is not visible.

Such examples of this are time-based one-time password and

pin number.

Next, we're going to talk about the Cybersecurity Framework

types. The first framework type would be NIST Cybersecurity

Framework. It is established by the National Institute of

companies. It offers the assurance of having being developed

It offers detailed guidance on everything from risk assessment

and continuous monitoring to incident response and awareness

training. Next on the list is ISO, which is designed to provide

a framework for achieving a certified level of data security

compliance that needs external assessment standards.

It is developed by the International Organization of Standardization

and the International Electrotechnical Commission.

It is designed to ensure a level of data privacy and confidentiality

that not only helps companies avoid prosecution but also

to maximize operational efficiencies through reduction of

vulnerability to disruptive attacks.

Next is the Critical Security Controls Framework developed

by the Sans Institute.

It offers an expert level understanding of cybersecurity,

and it is a claim for breaking down those insights into three

manageable and actionable categories.

This framework provides a defense mechanism to ensure that

authorized personnel are accessing appropriate data and assets.

Last on the list is COBIT, which stands for Control Objectives

for Information-related Technology.

It is designed to guarantee the integrity of organization's

data infrastructure from operational perspective.

It offers a tool for managers to assess risks and eliminate

weak spots

from a big perspective.

avoiding the wasted resources that come with the application

effort.

