Next will be the wireless network security.
Wireless networks are used to connect the

computers to each other without any cables.
They have become popular due to the ease of

installation and the increasing
popularity of laptop computers.

Restaurants, hotels, business centers, apartment
complexes, and individuals often provide wireless

access with little or no protection. The
network is referred to as a "service set

identifier". All devices on the network must use
the same SSID to communicate with each other.

The major advantage of wireless
networks is user mobility,

that is within the range of a particular network.
A network has sufficient bandwidth to enable

a wide range of applications and services such
as police radios, palm pilots, and cell phones.

The main concern has to do with the mobility of
users who expect flawless reception between access

points. It is not necessary to re-log in and
restore network applications. A wireless exchange

is possible only if the access points exchange
data with every transfer of one user to another.

Wireless networks provide the freedom to roam with
uninterrupted connectivity. Now, we're going to

talk about the network security threats.
First on the list is Malware.

Email, instant messaging, and file sharing
programs have traditionally been used to

spread viruses, worms, back doors, root kits,
trojans, and spyware from computer to computer.

Sniffing
Wi-fi access points can be used

by hackers to set up packet sniffers to monitor
all traffic that comes and goes in a network.

Denial of Service

It leads the computer to crash or to become so
busy in processing data that it cannot be used.

Mobile Code
either Java, Javascript and ActiveX, intruders use

a mobile code to gather information from websites
visited or to run malicious code in the computer.

Email Spoofing

An email message that appears to have
originated from one source when it was

really sent from another to trick the
user in providing sensitive information.

Chat clients allow the exchange of
executable code that may be malicious.

Being an intermediary for another attack
Intruders use compromised computers for

attacking other systems. Backdoor
and remote administration programs

BackOrifice, NetBus and SubSeven

are the tools commonly used by intruders to
attack windows computer. Cross-site scripting

It is when a malicious web developer may
attach a script to something sent to a website

such as a URL that is transferred to your
browser when the website responds to you.

Unprotected windows shares can be exploited by
intruders to place distributed attack tools for

windows based computers attached to the
internet. Securing Network Connections

To secure network connections, first,
use a firewall. A firewall is a part

of a computer system or network that is
designed to block unauthorized access.

It controls traffic coming into and leaving the
system by permitting authorized communications.

Examples of software firewalls are Windows
Firewall, Norton personal firewall, McAfee

personal firewall, Subeit personal firewall,
ZoneAlarm and Comodo personal firewall. Next

is to use an antivirus protection.
An antivirus is a software used to

detect viruses and protect the system from
threats. It should be used at the server.

Viruses can be detected using specific or generic
methods. Specific methods look for the exact virus

while the generic look for virus-like
performance and may cause false alarms.

Anti-virus should be configured to scan all
workstations; the complete network at regular

intervals; all incoming and outgoing traffic;
email attachments, downloads, and browsing.

Here are some examples of antivirus
software. First is AVG antivirus

which is a product by the Grisoft company.
It can be downloaded from www.grisoft.com,

and like any other antivirus software, it detects
and removes viruses from the system. Norton

Norton antivirus is a product of Symantec
corporation. It can be downloaded from

www.symantec.com and it can detect and remove
viruses and other malicious codes from the system.

Kaspersky
Kaspersky antivirus provides a

user with traditional anti-virus protection based
on the latest protection technologies. The user

can work, communicate, surf the internet, and play
online games on the computer safely and easily.

Next tip would be to use strong passwords.
Password is the first line of defense and

the user should ensure that the passwords
selected for all user accounts are strong,

and while creating a password, the user should
remember that the password should be: first,

easy to remember. The password must be something
that the user can remember, but not related to the

user. It should not contain any bank information.
Next a password should contain long and multiple

symbols. A strong password is 8 to 10 digits
long with letters numbers and special characters.

Passwords should also be frequently changing.

Create the schedule to change the password
periodically, and use strong encryption algorithms

to encrypt the password storage files such as
a security account manager, and passwd.conf

file. Next is password should withstand filters
and resist crackers. Use a filter that operates

in real time, and reinforces some level
of length and complexity on passwords.

Next step for securing network connections
should be: make regular backups. Regular backups

help to avoid the loss of critical data or files
which can be accidentally deleted or corrupted.

It helps to restore data during security issues.

The main reasons to backup data include
restoring the critical data after data loss,

and restoring files when they are
accidentally deleted or corrupted.

Know about encryption
Encryption or the conversion of data

into a unreadable form called ciphertext.
Unencrypted data is called a plain text.

Encryption protects sensitive
information that is transmitted online.

It camouflages the data within a file or message
so that unauthorized users cannot use it.

There are two types of encryption:
asymmetric encryption wherein the user

uses two keys - one key for encryption
and the other key is for decryption.

Next would be the symmetric encryption which
uses one key for both encryption and decryption.

To summarize the whole lesson, first,

a firewall is part of a computer system or network
that is designed to block unauthorized access.

The router acts as a shield to the
network and manages all communications.

Wireless networks are used to connect the
computers to each other without any cables.

Eavesdropping, data interception,
and modification, denial of service,

spoofing, freeloading, and rogue WLANs are
the common threads to the wireless network.

Sniffing, malware, email spoofing, chat
clients, cross-site scripting, unprotected

windows shares, and mobile code on some of the
network security threats. Lastly, secure network

connections using firewall anti-virus using strong
passwords regular backups encryption, and so on.

