As systems grow powerful attacks on systems grow
more sophisticated, and no amount of security

measures may completely avert the attacks.
But security measures do help in mitigating

the attacks therefore it is important that the
system users secure the computer from threats.

This module talks about securing
a system from such threats.

This module will familiarize you with: one,
system security. Two, threads to system security.

Three, guidelines for windows or
security and four window security tools.

System Security

System security is a requirement for accessing
various applications and downloads in enterprises.

System security is a major concern to
organizations and users as it may contain

sensitive data. The system has various issues such
as malicious software, hardware/software failure,

malicious user or attacker, user error, phishing,
and theft or vandalism. Issues related to system

security include every operating system and
application is subject to security flaws

because every day attackers are finding new attack
codes to attack the operating systems. Software

vendors usually develop patches to address
these flaws which are usually caused by the

uneven architecture during the developing phase.
The user has to obtain and install the patches

and configure the software which updates system
protection and maintain an unaffected performance.

System compromise can be prevented by
applying security patches in a timely manner.

Threats to System Security

Specific threats one should be aware of for
system security include: First, a virus.

A virus is a program that replicates
by copying itself to other programs.

System boot sectors are documents and alters
or damages to computer files and applications.

A computer virus can do anything from popping
up a short message to wiping key files so that

your computer does not work. Some viruses may
cause direct damage to your files by deleting

or corrupting them. Viruses can also use system
resources and reduce computer speed by affecting

the computer or network. Some viruses may display
rude political or strange messages on the screen.

Some viruses can allow other people to access
and perhaps control your computer. Next is worm.

A worm is a self-replicating virus
that does not alter files but resides

in computer memory and replicates itself.
A computer worm is similar to a computer virus

however unlike virus it does not require
user intervention to replicate as it is a

self-replicating computer program. A virus works
by attaching itself to another executable file;

a worm does not have to be part of another
program to propagate itself and is designed

to exploit the file transfer activities on target
systems. In addition to replication, a worm can

cause further harm such as deleting files on the
victim system or sending documents via email.

A worm can wreck havoc with the network traffic
generated by its reproduction. For example,

the Mydoom worm caused a noticeable worldwide
internet slowdown at the peak of its spread.

Next is Backdoor

A backdoor is an unauthorized
means of accessing a system

and bypassing the security mechanisms. An
effective backdoor allows an attacker to

retain access to an infected machine even though
the system administrator detects the intrusion.

Next on the list is a Trojan.

A trojan is a program that seems to be
legitimate but acts maliciously when executed.

It can damage or erase information on the hard
drive. It can also open a discrete entry point

for an attacker to revisit and own the system. A
trojan can, thus, permit an attacker to use the

victim's system for further attacks. Data can be
stolen and manipulated. In contrast the attacker

may use the system's resources such as hard disk
space to distribute illegal material over the net.

Next is Logic Bomb.
A logic bomb is a code that

is surreptitiously inserted into an application
or operating system that causes it to perform

a destructive or security compromising
activity wherever specific conditions are met.

Spyware
A spyware includes trojans and other malicious

software that steals personal information
from a system without the user's knowledge.

It can result in an undesired
advertising information

or pop-ads in particular the rerouting of page
requests to illegally claim commercial site

referral fees and even the installation of stealth
phone dialers. Some software providers bundle

secondary programs to collect data or distribute
advertisement content without explicitly informing

the user about the real purpose of those
programs. These secondary software programs

can that drastically impair or degrade system
performance and consume network resources.

Keylogger
A keylogger is a hardware device or small

software program that monitors and records
each keystroke on a user's computer keyboard.

It can be used by an attacker to capture
confidential information for later use. This means

a key logger can be used to find out everything
a person types into a computer including personal

letters, business correspondence,
passwords, and credit card numbers.

Password Cracking
A password cracking is the process of identifying

or recovering an unknown or forgotten password.
The malicious intent behind password cracking

is to gain unauthorized access to a system. A
password cracker is an application program that

is used to identify an unknown or forgotten
password to a computer or network resources.

The password cracking techniques includes
the following: guessing, brute forcing,

dictionary attack, shoulder
surfing, and social engineering.

Guidelines for Windows Operating System Security

Over the past several years, the number of
computer security breaches has increased.

Most of the operating systems, Windows and Mac
OS, offer peer-to-peer files sharing which may

expose the computer to various malware programs
or other threats. Guidelines are important and

help a user to learn best security practices
for securing a windows operating system.

Follow these guidelines for windows
operating system security: (1)

lock the system when not in use; (2) create a
strong password (3) disable the guest account; (4)

lock out unwanted guests; (5) rename
the administrator account; (6)

disable startup menu; (7) apply security patches;
(8) use windows firewall; (9) use NTFS; (10) use

windows encrypting file system; (11) enable
BitLocker; (12) disable unnecessary services.

As well as (13) kill unnecessary processes on
your computer; (14) audit the attackers; (15) hide

files and folders; (16) disable simple file
sharing; (17) use windows user access control,

and (18) implement malware prevention.

Windows Security Tools

The first on the windows security tools is the
Microsoft Security Essentials which provides

real-time protection for home and small business
PC that guards against viruses, spyware and other

malicious software. Security essentials cover
the complete protection of a system and guards

against attacks. Microsoft security essentials is
backed by the Microsoft Malware Protection Center

or MMPC which provides world-class anti-malware
research and response capabilities to support all

Microsoft security products and services. Its key
features include comprehensive malware protection,

simple and free download, automatic
updates, and this software is easy to use.

Keepass Password Safe Portable
Keepass is a free open source password manager

which helps you to manage your
passwords in a secure way.

You can put all your passwords in one database
which is locked with one master key or a key file,

so you only have to remember one single master
password or select the key file to unlock the

whole database. The databases are encrypted using
the best and most secure encryption algorithms

currently known as AES and Twofish. The main
features of the security tool include: (1)

it allows the user to securely carry email
internet and other passwords with him or her; (2)

a user can put all passwords in one database
which is locked with a master key or key file; (3)

a user can place this application on a USB
flash drive portable, hard drive or CD.

Registry Mechanic

A registry mechanic offers easy to use
optimization tools to speed up and improve

the stability of your windows system. Regardless
of your level of expertise, registry mechanic

safely cleans repairs and optimizes the registry
and automatically backs up for future recovery.

It now includes essential tools to fix windows
security loopholes, permanently erase your

internet activity, personal files and free space
to keep your information away from prying eyes.

The main features of registry mechanic
include: (1) increased speed for your PC and

improvement in windows experience; (2) optimize
performance by scanning and repairing invalid

registry in entries to fix freezes,
crashes, and slowdowns; (3) removal

of orphaned registry references to
improve performance and stability.

Other main features of registry mechanic include:
(1) options to boost system speed provided by

performance monitor; (2) organized and compact
registry to increase system efficiency; (3)

an assessment by the system monitor of your PC's
up and shut down times highlighting potential

issues; (4) tune up services that optimize
your PC performance and provide better startup

times by turning off non-essential windows
services; and lastly (5) customizable ignore

lists which allow you to prevent specific
items from being detected and repaired.

